# Smart-Meter
Trend in the IoT based smart devices is tremendously increasing day by day. By time more people are becoming aware of smart technology and its convenience in control and management of daily things seizes their attention. Smart energy meters (SEM) plays one role in this world of smart devices, to progress towards making the whole power system interconnected.  In past three decades people had done much work on making power systems smart and thus there are plenty of published papers on smart meters. This project specifically uses different approach with additional functional development and better accuracy. Briefly, SEM is a remote monitoring and control device that automatically transmit data to utility, limits load to minimize load shedding trend, use operation techniques for generating stations for demand estimation and provide different options to consumers to manage their budget, like individual appliance power usage and cumulative plots. Transmitting data enables the utility computers to monitor the meter readings regularly to avert electricity theft. With the use of a programmable unit we can operate the meter to continuously monitors and records the readings in its permanent (nonvolatile) memory location in most feasible way.  Whole world is connected through internet, and thus it is the most appropriate and common way of communication for a smart device. With internet there is need for additional security protocols and encrypted channels; but with this complexity meter can lead in many other ways that’s not possible through other channels. WIFI adapter connected with router sends data sample to internet after planted sample time. This data will then send towards consumer mobile application and towards utility, where computer will statistically analyze the data and show the results. As, the period end this adapter will receive bill from utility and controller will cut the supply off if payment time limit exceeds. So, with this bidirectional communication technique utility can send ads and other deals to some specific meter by time; and consumer can access direct support from utility.
